README.md, before:

# Matching of Collector Names to Other Resources

Here we gathered tools to assist the name matching of (biological) collector names to other resources, like WikiData names and related IDs aso. This approach is based primarily on Niels Klazenga’s work from the Virtual Herbarium of Australia (☞ <https://github.com/nielsklazenga/avh-collectors/>), thank you for that ;-)

*What you need first:* 
- You need to know programming or at least code programming understanding to use these tools. 
- If you have Jupyter Notebook and Python installed on your machine you can use or adapt the Notebook scripts to your needs more easily.

## Getting Data

WikiData:
- [`create_wikidata_datasets_botanists.ipynb`](./create_wikidata_datasets_botanists.ipynb) – to get data of botanists from WikiData

BGBM example:
- [`create_bgbm_gbif-occurrence_collectors_dataset.ipynb`](./create_bgbm_gbif-occurrence_collectors_dataset.ipynb) – create an example data set from GIBF (*Virtual Herbarium Germany* (BGBM) <https://doi.org/10.15468/dl.tued2e>)

Plazi example:
- [`create_plazi_collectors_dataset.ipynb`](./create_plazi_collectors_dataset.ipynb) – create only data from Plazi‘s Collection Statistics “Materials Citation Data” (<https://tb.plazi.org/GgServer/srsStats>)

## Matching of Names

- [`match_names_BGBM-dwcagent-parsed_vs_WikiData.ipynb`](./match_names_BGBM-dwcagent-parsed_vs_WikiData.ipynb) – performing a name matching of parsed collector names (from own source data) to WikiData botanist names
- [`match_names_BGBM-dwcagent-parsed_vs_WikiData_cosine-similarity.ipynb`](./match_names_BGBM-dwcagent-parsed_vs_WikiData_cosine-similarity.ipynb) – performing a name matching using cosine-similarity of parsed collector names (from own source data) to WikiData botanist names
- [`create_and_match_plazi_collectors_dataset.ipynb`](./create_and_match_plazi_collectors_dataset.ipynb) – create and match data from Plazi‘s Collection Statistics “Materials Citation Data” (<https://tb.plazi.org/GgServer/srsStats>)

## Parsing of Name Lists

See ☞ [`bin/README.md`](./bin/README.md).


## TODO

- review and improve the code:

    - compare name matching algorithm (<https://github.com/nielsklazenga/avh-collectors/cosine_similarity.ipynb> ⇌ `nearest_neighbour`)

- improve name matching if own source data contain a full name, this can be matched against WikiData (perhaps parsed) `itemLabel`, which is mostly the full name

- add time matching as well
    - floruit time span of person
    - recorded date of museum sample if no life data of the person are available ?occurrence.txt → eventDate? (see https://www.gbif.org/developer/occurrence section “Query parameters explained”

Commit message:

add sample data of occurrence recordedBy with eventDate (BGBM sample)

README.md, after:

# Matching of Collector Names to Other Resources

Here we gathered tools to assist the name matching of (biological) collector names to other resources, like WikiData names and related IDs aso. This approach is based primarily on Niels Klazenga’s work from the Virtual Herbarium of Australia (☞ <https://github.com/nielsklazenga/avh-collectors/>), thank you for that ;-)

*What you need first:* 
- You need to know programming or at least code programming understanding to use these tools. 
- If you have Jupyter Notebook and Python installed on your machine you can use or adapt the Notebook scripts to your needs more easily.

## Getting Data

WikiData:
- [`create_wikidata_datasets_botanists.ipynb`](./create_wikidata_datasets_botanists.ipynb) – to get data of botanists from WikiData

BGBM example:
- [`create_bgbm_gbif-occurrence_collectors_dataset.ipynb`](./create_bgbm_gbif-occurrence_collectors_dataset.ipynb) – create an example data set from GIBF (*Virtual Herbarium Germany* (BGBM) <https://doi.org/10.15468/dl.tued2e>)
- [`create_bgbm_gbif-occurrence_collectors_eventDate_dataset.ipynb`](./create_bgbm_gbif-occurrence_collectors_eventDate_dataset.ipynb) – create an example data set with collection date (`eventDate`) from GIBF (*Virtual Herbarium Germany* (BGBM) <https://doi.org/10.15468/dl.tued2e>)

Plazi example:
- [`create_plazi_collectors_dataset.ipynb`](./create_plazi_collectors_dataset.ipynb) – create only data from Plazi‘s Collection Statistics “Materials Citation Data” (<https://tb.plazi.org/GgServer/srsStats>)

## Matching of Names

- [`match_names_BGBM-dwcagent-parsed_vs_WikiData.ipynb`](./match_names_BGBM-dwcagent-parsed_vs_WikiData.ipynb) – performing a name matching of parsed collector names (from own source data) to WikiData botanist names
- [`match_names_BGBM-dwcagent-parsed_vs_WikiData_cosine-similarity.ipynb`](./match_names_BGBM-dwcagent-parsed_vs_WikiData_cosine-similarity.ipynb) – performing a name matching using cosine-similarity of parsed collector names (from own source data) to WikiData botanist names
- [`create_and_match_plazi_collectors_dataset.ipynb`](./create_and_match_plazi_collectors_dataset.ipynb) – create and match data from Plazi‘s Collection Statistics “Materials Citation Data” (<https://tb.plazi.org/GgServer/srsStats>)

## Parsing of Name Lists

See ☞ [`bin/README.md`](./bin/README.md).


## TODO

- review and improve the code:

    - compare name matching algorithm (<https://github.com/nielsklazenga/avh-collectors/cosine_similarity.ipynb> ⇌ `nearest_neighbour`)

- improve name matching if own source data contain a full name, this can be matched against WikiData (perhaps parsed) `itemLabel`, which is mostly the full name

- add time matching as well

    - matching including `eventDate` (i.e. sampling date in this case; read https://www.gbif.org/data-quality-requirements-occurrences#dcEventDate)
    - floruit time span of person
    - recorded date of museum sample if no life data of the person are available ?occurrence.txt → eventDate? (see https://www.gbif.org/developer/occurrence section “Query parameters explained”
